it's the next best thing to a living
dinosaur a species that has survived for
some ten million years an enormous
predatory lizard that can eat a whole
deer and even kill a man with one bite
its name the Komodo dragon
they say the Dragons can smell a carcass
rotting carcass from fifteen kilometers
away you've got a mouthful of curved
serrated teeth very unusual among the
lizards I mean they're much more like
shark's teeth animal X travelled to the
Dragons homeland Komodo Island in
Indonesia to unravel the mystery and
myth behind the world's biggest reptile
we discovered a desolate place more
reminiscent of the Arizona desert than a
tropical jungle dangerous seas surround
Komodo Island almost as if protecting it
from outsiders the islands were formed
by tectonic plates which collide beneath
tempestuous waters fraught with rips
whirlpools and extreme tidal changes
Komodo is also home to active volcanoes
and other bizarre creatures like giant
spiders that spend their days basking
we took a much travelled route to find
the Komodo dragon in its natural habitat
and soon there were signs that we were
on the right path before us the
distinctive trails left by the Komodos
tail in the sand then the remnants of a
recent feast the antlers of a deer and
finally the Dragons done made up of
nothing more than hair and bone suddenly
we realized we had company
not surprisingly nothing preys on this
animal except its own kind
the Komodo is accountable and will eat
another lizard after it has died
if saliva alone is enough to kill as it
contains a deadly bacteria for which
there is no known cure such a terrifying
creature should provoke some fearsome
folklore amongst local villagers and
that's exactly what it's done there are
many variations on the story as to how
both the people and the dragons came to
be in Komodo they believe that there's
some kind of psychic link between them
and the Dragons they believed that once
long ago there was a woman who gave
birth to a human child and a dragon
and she was very embarrassed about this
and the dragon went away the control
dragon was upset too went away and lived
in exile up in the mountains
she or she lived in in exile already
anyway being ashamed about having
delivered a dragon but that the dragon
would come back and visit her being
one of her offspring I never do her any
harm mysteriously the end of that table
has held true
so far no Komodo villagers are known to
have been attacked by the Dragons but on
the neighboring islands it's a different
story